welcome back again everyone laws the
Montgomery here the China history
podcast part eight today the Chinese
warlord era you could be sure everyone
in China has had enough of these
warlords and starting in this episode
it's time to take them down but before
we go there allow me to pull over once
again and introduce you to one more
major heavy of the warlord era
this was Yin Shi Xiong when you think of
the most well-known names from this era
Yin Shi Shan always makes the list he
was a marquee name from the warlord Hall
of Fame well if that's true why is it
were already eight episodes into the
series and we've hardly heard his name
and it's already 1925 1926 where has he
been hiding out well Yin Shi Shan wasn't
hiding out and like his warlord brethren
he had already been the master of his
own province since 1917 he was the
warlord of Shaanxi and in saying that if
you're familiar with that laid-back
northern province famous for its noodles
and natural resources you'll know why if
you look at a physical map of China
although shun she's main city of tiger
and is only 200 miles away from Beijing
may as well be 2,000 today of course you
can take the high-speed train that runs
between Tiger and and Beijing two and a
half to three hours is all it'll take
you but back in the 1920s and 30s and
yen she shines day and it was a much
greater distance
Shaanxi province is surrounded on all
sides by mountains and rivers the wu tai
tai hong injeong tail mountains and of
course the Yellow River flows along the
southern and western borders of the
province historically all these natural
barriers combined kept the province
somewhat isolated from what was
happening in the central plain of
eastern China in Manchuria Hebei hernán
Shandong and elsewhere tradition says
was in Shaanxi where you the great of
the shot dynasty tamed the flooding
rivers in the mythical Emperor
who Confucius admired so greatly also
from Shaanxi the land where the ancient
state of jinn was located so its
relative isolation contributed
significantly to keeping Shaanxi from
being more directly engaged in all the
history and goings-on elsewhere in post
Imperial China on the one hand Shan
she's geographic fate impeded the
provinces economic progress and easy
access to the foreign traders who
congregated in the major coastal cities
and treaty ports but on the other hand
for Yin Shi Shan at least this allowed
him to keep all these rivalries and wars
fought between anyway surely fronting
the KMT and the Guam in June far from
his doorstep all that action tended to
be focused south and east of Yin Shi
Shands realm Yin Shi Shan never stayed
loyal to one ally with any consistency
he changed partners were ever and
whenever had benefited him he was good
at picking the right side and although
not as powerful a player is some of his
fellow warlords his support was always
sought out just like a minority party
and government so that's why we haven't
heard yet she shines named too much in
this series but let me tell you he had
quite an enterprise going up there in
Shaanxi
far from the madding crowd he didn't
turn shun XI into a rich province but
thanks to his efforts over the 38 years
he ran the place he was certainly
responsible for making it less poor but
he knew despite everything that he can
do his province wasn't in the same
league militarily or economically as
those to the east of him then the
terrain of Shaanxi it also wasn't
terribly suited for agriculture but
Shaanxi province yeah it was good enough
for Yin Shi Shan that's all he wanted he
was by no means a jauntily nor will pay
fool who sought out national hegemony so
what's his story
young Shi Shan was born in Shinjo just
Noor
of shun she's main city of Tyron the
commercial industrial and political
center of Shaanxi province not everyone
knows this but shun she was once one of
the largest banking centers in China and
yen she Sean's family came from one of
these well-off banking families however
his family fell on hard times during the
late Ching and Yin Shi Shan did what a
lot of young men did
despite his family background and high
degree of education he enrolled in one
of the many military academies popping
up everywhere this one in Thai urine and
from there
Yin Shi Shan did the fashionable thing
to do for many a budding militarist he
he went to Japan and continued his
studies at Japanese military academies
this five-year stint beginning in 1904
had a rather profound impact on Yin Shi
Shan and how he later on ran his
province like countless other educated
Chinese who had their eyes opened by the
achievements of Japan and the other
foreign powers he vowed to implement
many of these reforms in his home
country even with his own troops later
on he saw much in Japan Samurai legacy
that he attempted to introduce Yin she
shines philosophy that he tried to
instill in his troops in inside Shaanxi
melded militarism nationalism and our
kisum democracy capitalism communism
individualism imperialism universalism
and paternalism how's that for a
combination while studying at Japan he
met Sun yat-sen enjoin'd son's party the
Tollman way or United League he was also
a close friend of fellow Shaanxi native
HH kong kong xiangxi a kmt stalwart
finance minister and spouse to one of
the song sisters the oldest and
brightest a ling HH combs served as an
early advisor to Yin Shi Shan when he
was just get
established up in Shaanxi although a sun
yat-sen alla Yin Shi Shan didn't always
see eye to eye with the KMT or the
southern Canton government Sun yat-sen's
failed second revolution that we
discussed in a previous episode well and
she shined didn't provide any support
and as he often did he set this conflict
out and to be truthful like most of
these warlords Yin Shi Shan wasn't too
enthusiastic about Sun yat-sen's
political ideals in the may 4th movement
he wasn't on the side of the students
and demonstrators let's just say that
this was a typical point of view shared
by most all warlords so after returning
from Japan in 1909
Yin Shi Shan joined the new army and got
assigned to his home province at first
Yin's loyalty was to your ensure Kai and
the Bey young organization but later in
1913 he ran afoul of yan and had to keep
a safe distance and bide his time until
after UN died in 1916 Yin Shi Shan had
already taken over the role of military
governor in Shaanxi and like everyone
else I mentioned he was one of those who
after UN's death transitioned from
military governor to warlord his record
shows a lot of hits and misses
Shaanxi today is China's West Virginia
the land of coal that began with Yin Shi
Shan and his development of the
provinces coal and iron ore mines he
also promoted shun she's cotton industry
and turned the province into a
powerhouse in that industry like fungus
young Yin Shi Shan tried to stamp out
many old traditional practices cutting
off queues of men still sporting the
Manchu hairstyle was one of them he also
implemented a whole slew of social
reforms in Shaanxi that well for one
clamped down mercilessly and purveyors
of opium and other drugs and as well as
the practice of foot binding he also
promoted basic education for women and
in 1918 he launched a program
she to educate young children by 1923 as
many as 800,000 Shaanxi kids had been
beneficiaries of this program a big
chunk of shun she's provincial budget
went to education not to higher
education but to basic elementary
schooling reading and writing a man you
had to walk before you ran he was also a
big proponent of water conservation and
tree planting as well as the propagation
of TCM traditional Chinese medicine to
noted organizations he called for where
the early morning rising society and the
heart cleansing Institute the names
alone can give you an idea where his
head was at clean disciplined living he
tried to propagate his philosophy
through these Institute's and built up
the people's morality and positive
living he was no dogmeat general in
short Yin Shi Shan knew he was the ruler
and master of one of China's less
prosperous provinces and he was
determined to lift his people up by
embracing all that was good and useful
from Japan and the West this was
particularly true with respect to
science and medicine
thanks to Shan she's remote location he
had been able to survive Genscher kai
the whole warlord era the nationalist
era and later on japanese invasion and
civil war with the Communists he was a
survivor he was a close friend of duan
shear a but never joined the on quake
league he always kept Shaanxi neutral he
was his own clique and as i mentioned
even though he was friendly with sun
yat-sen he didn't once son's political
ideas being implemented in his province
and for all these reasons Yin Shi Shan
acquired the nickname of the model
governor the wolf on 2 June a lot of
things went right under his leadership
but he had his share of headaches and
financial crises brought on by
speculation and ideas that were great
and well-meaning but not implemented
well in all the in
written about Yin Shi Shan he was
described as solemn to the point of dour
unsmiling very reserved in public
gatherings never laughed or revealed his
inner feelings you'd think he'd be a fun
you Shang type who espoused a plane and
ascetic lifestyle but Yin Shi Shan
acquired massive amounts of wealth and
lived a very luxurious lifestyle up in
his home base of cayenne robin Leach
widow loved him so Yin Shi Shan didn't
just come out of nowhere for the
preceding 7 episodes
he's been playing in the background
quietly running his province and staying
out of the major conflicts as soon as we
get to the northern expedition however
as 1927 rolls around Yin Shi Shan came
out of the shadows and began to play a
more noticeable role in this warlord era
and as we get closer to that time we'll
revisit Yin Shi Shan
let's take a quick look at what was
cooking down in the south I want to
stress again from the moment that chin
dynasty fell in 1911 up to these years
we're in right now 1925-26 there was a
whole other thing going on down in the
south of China with respect to the rival
government based in Canton or Guangzhou
all those southern provinces and their
own warlord happenings over in Yunnan
Guangdong guacho Guang XI all this time
since the will Cheung uprising 1010 1911
the southern leadership hadn't been able
to assemble any kind of coalition that
could pose a serious challenge to these
bayon generals too much time time a bit
wasted since 1917 trying to unify the
leadership and to resist the actions of
the northern warlords and then once Sun
yat-sen died in 1925 it thrust the
southern government into yet another
political crisis let's jump to March
20th 1926 this is the date of the Canton
coup Jean kai-shek down in Guangzhou he
was still head of the Whampoa Military
Academy he received a tip that his
life was in danger and his political
enemies were gonna be forcibly removing
him from the whole KMT organization so
Jang didn't follow this up too much and
took pre-emptive action against those he
thought we're plotting against him the
KMT left and the Communists aided and
abetted of course by the Comintern this
sham cooperation with the Chinese
communist and this whole United Front
idea I mentioned this in part six
despite all the sweet-talking from the
Comintern Jiang smelled a rat all along
and after this right-wing
Canton coup was carried out he put an
end to that arrangement and seized
control of the government and the
nationalist army his rival Wan Jing way
leader of the leftist faction of the KMT
I left her seeing what Jang kai-shek had
gone and done he picked up and went on
an extended European holiday and this
move by John it was a serious blow to
the KMT left when the dust settled the
left wing of the Nationalist Party had
been marginalized and Jung got to halt
the slow and steady infiltration of
Russians and Chinese Communists into his
organization didn't do anything violent
so much as he just sidelined the
Communists Jang felt there was still a
need for Soviet support with his
northern expedition so he didn't burn
those bridges just yet and as for that
short-lived experiment of civilian
control over the military Jen put an end
to that too once this was achieved in G
Jung had officially put on the mantle of
Sun yat-sen it was going to be left up
to him and his armies to get rid of all
these Jiang Collins will pay fools yen
she shines fungus Jung's Jang dong
Chung's and all these other well
whatever you want to call them almost
from the very beginning going back to
the death of you ensure Chi in 1916 the
Solidarity of this Bayon clique that UN
had led started to fall apart between
1917 and 1926 a total of nine years
these warlords just
wiping each other out and they join
together to whack a common foe and then
as soon as that was done they'd go back
to trying to kill each other again on
and on it went year after destructive
year all over China not just in the
north and central part of the country
down in the south - and a few of these
major figures these leaders of these
various cliques
not all but they had this idea in the
back of their head to try and become
that that Qin Shihuang or lil bung who
could best their rivals and become the
last man standing to unify China into
one nation with them in charge when I
spared you all the political lead up to
the Canton coup of March 1926 what's
important to know for our story is that
this is where John kai-shek takes the
lead and becomes the one within the KMT
to finally take this old idea first
discussed by Sun yat-sen and others in
the early 1920s to take the fight to
these warlords and see it through to the
end these warlords had to be toppled or
won over to the side of the KMT the
guangdong the Nationalist Party so
you'll start hearing more and more of
Jian from here on out and the men mostly
getting in Chiang sway of Chinese
unification were gentle in Lupe Phu Yen
Shi Shan Jang Song Chun and Swint Wan
Fong these warlords in particular and
their allies well they held sway over
the government in Beijing and Cheerilee
Shandong all of Manchuria Lennon Konan
who Bay food Chen Yong Shi anway George
Jung and Jung soo-jung kai-shek had his
work cut out for him so let's go back to
the campaign coup in March 1926 to give
you a time stamp to what was happening
up north went young grabbed power in
this right-wing coup the anti funky n
war was just ending you recall chunks
all in and we'll pay Fuu teamed up to
overwhelm fungus young and you know
knock him off the board for a little
while so while John was making his move
to take control of the KMT Fung you
Shang was soon about to take a brief
Russian holiday and chunks all in it was
making himself comfortable in Beijing on
June 5th 19 26th Jiang was named
commander-in-chief that song su Ling of
the National Revolutionary Army the NRA
and then on July 1st 1926 the realigned
Canton government issued this bold
Proclamation that stated quote to
protect the welfare of the people
we must overthrow all warlords and wipe
out reactionary power so that we may
implement the three people's principles
and complete the national revolution end
quote
from this point forward just as Sun
yat-sen had once been called now John
kai-shek became the Generalissimo and
with these favorable winds blowing in
his sails John believed if there ever
was a time to launch the northern
expedition against the Warlord's this
was it he didn't want to lose the
momentum the northern expedition in its
scale in the number of casualties and in
its sheer destruction to infrastructure
and private property was perhaps the
biggest military campaign carried out
anywhere between the two world wars the
NRA was heavily outnumbered by troops
fighting under the Warlord's when John
kai-shek set out to fulfill his destiny
on July 9th 1926 the plan was to take
whole non-first and use that as a
springboard into Howe Bay and of course
the grand prize and whole Bay were the
tri-cities that made up will hunt now
that meant first going head-to-head with
the powerful Honan warlord Tang Xiang
jerk
Tang Xiang sure was a Honan born and
raised graduate from the Bao ting
Military Academy and it had a very
active career in the military but it was
in Hunan province where he had made his
mark and Tong Zhong sure was John's
first match except that Tung Chung juror
welcome John and said from now on he was
on the KMT side
yeah he wasn't the only one - others
will for their own self-serving reasons
as always join the northern expedition
on the nra side and pledged their army
and their loyalty to john kai-shek and
quotation marks around that word loyalty
besides Tung Chung sure they were also
more than two dozen other mini warlords
scattered all around hold on that
province was infested the lowered down
the food chain you went the less
effective and more unruly these troops
were those that didn't turn and run when
they faced the NRA ended up as new
recruits and Zhang's army by June 11th
the Capitol Changsha was taken followed
by the rest of Hunan by the end of July
it had fallen and will pay Foos
shoulders to try and hang on to hold on
but with Tung Chung juror defecting and
troops from cuejoe and other smaller
warlords given promises by Jeong for
joining the KMT side yeah it was it was
too overwhelming of a force and they
made fast work of will pay full and
whole none they'll chase him all the way
to Wuhan before he exits the fight and
flees to his stronghold in Hunan and Yin
Shi Shan the Shaanxi warlord the model
governor he too signed up with Chiang
kai-shek in this northern expedition he
always knew his limitations and had
survived for this long by picking the
right friends at the right time he had
some amazing staying power you know
several years later he too made the
cover of Time magazine
the may 19 1930 issue with the caption
underneath China's next president and
Henry Lucy sure love dem warlords who
Bay province was the next to fall at the
end of October 1926 thanks to two of his
most trusted generals hugging Ching and
Jeong Joon Fujian and judge young to
both fell into line he could say the
northern expedition was off to a blazing
start Chiang kai-shek must have been
feeling pretty good at this point no one
would dare challenge him politically
now but much of this great success in
the first months in the northern
expedition had come mostly by way of
occupying territory that Warlord's had
either vacated or turned over to Jung
and although a lotta blood had been
spilled
most of these spectacular gains weren't
coming so much from winning on the
battlefield with all the deals and
mergers and acquisitions John was making
with these warlords to build a coalition
the KMT was sort of becoming the party
of warlords
jion's attention next turned to Nanjing
and Shanghai this is when he decided to
move the military headquarters from
Wuhan to closer to where the action was
in nan Chun Chun chi province
well the KMT left and they didn't like
that because they wanted the center of
power to remain in their stronghold of
wool huntin they didn't want to sit back
and watch John kai-shek keep grabbing
more power and control
so they openly challenged John for his
actions and stripped him of all powers
up to now militarily at least everything
had gone just fine and suddenly this
political rift erupted Zhang kai-shek as
if he didn't know it already
had his suspicions confirmed that the
KMT left was not on his side and were in
fact against him in cahoots with the
Communists and the left saw what chiang
kai-shek was doing trying to consolidate
all this power and his hands of the
state and of the party and to them
he was shaping up to be just another yen
sure Kai and I'm not sure if it was
around now or maybe even earlier but
John kai-shek had decided that not
unless the KMT left split from the
Communists would he ever accept them
Jiang had let it be known that if Wang
Jingwei
and his followers in Wuhan on the Left
didn't purge their ranks of Communists
and get on the jung kai-shek bus they'd
be run over by it
then came the famous rambling Stalin
telegram that gave all kinds of strange
and terribly unrealistic instructions to
the Kahn
in China about where to go from here
when Wang Jingwei was shown a copy of
these instructions from Stalin he
realized that the KMT left was only
being used in that the Soviets had much
darker and sinister plans as far as this
pet Chinese communist project they had
going on in retrospect we can say how
could anyone not have known but in 1926
no nobody knew what we know now after a
very bloody and costly series of battles
with the forces of warlords intron Fang
on March 22nd 1927 an IRA forces led by
bi Chong she entered Shanghai and at
this very moment where communist
organizing was showing smashing signs of
success all over not only Shanghai
button Wuhan Guangzhou and other cities
as well it was decided that the
Communists and all their sympathizers
needed to be rubbed out and for all you
that remember CHP episode number 55 what
followed by tongue she's taking of
Shanghai it became known as the Shanghai
massacre now prior to the taking of
Shanghai at the end of February 1927 the
dog meet general Chang Chong Chang had
taken his private railway car harem in
tow and rode in the direction of
Shanghai he brought his expensive coffin
with him just in just in case and he
blew into Shanghai prior to the arrival
of by Cheong she's troops old 86 was
extravagantly feted at a party by do us
young himself I wish I could have been a
fly on the wall during that evening big
ears do and the dog meet general what a
night that must have been but for all
his toughness and his reputation when he
faced off against the NRA troops led by
the often victorious guanxi cleek Muslim
general by chonci it wasn't much of a
fight and the dog meat general's troops
had grown flabbier and more
undisciplined than ever they fled and
did what war alert soldiers always do in
these situations they tried to blend in
the crowd and live
fight another day after the city had
been taken
young arrived in Shanghai on March 26
1927 his first stop was to big ears do
your son's boss pockmark Huang Huang
Jean wrong they didn't mention this but
all this time in late 1926 and into 1927
there had been massive civic unrest in
the most important cities from Guangzhou
to Wuhan to Shanghai and elsewhere
organized labor was causing all kinds of
economic chaos through strikes and
boycotts the Communists would their anti
imperialist
anti West anti-japan anti warlord
rhetoric had become emboldened with
their success and organizing and it was
John kai-shek's intention to take them
down a few notches and to do this
honking wrong was just the guy he needed
early morning on April 12 1927 came the
fateful bugle call that signaled the
commencement of the shanghai massacre
also known as day one of the chinese
civil war there was no turning back
after this event that is unless one side
was threatened or cajoled by outside
forces to call a truce with that nasty
bit of business out of the way and the
Communists driven deep underground
Chiang kai-shek established a rival
government of the Republic of China
based in Nanjing and this government was
first shared by who Han mean all one
Qing way and his allies in Wuhan could
do was to make a toothless attempt to
expel John from the KMT and charge him
with a list of accusations like
splitting the party in the wake of the
Shanghai Massacre the Western nations
were secretly relieved with this outcome
order had at last been restored to
commerce all that was left over were the
hard feelings as far as the northern
warlords they were notorious Chinese
Communist haters too so they had no
issues with what john kai-shek had
carried out with the massacre and the
white terror that
you'd on unabated till it wasn't safe
for any communist to come out of hiding
to defend against what they knew was
coming the northern warlords led by John
Selene formed a coalition called the
unquote June the National Peace Army
warlords from Cho Chang Fujian shanghai
nanjing parts of anway jang-soo
most of Guang XI Guangdong and Sichuan
had gone over to the Jian kai-shek side
well that sounds like a lot but it was
hardly all of China in fact pretty much
that was most everything south of the
Yangtze River once again this mother of
all rivers in China was gonna have to be
crossed for yet another military
campaign and if not for their mutual
hatred of leftists and communists these
former warlords and their tenuous new
allies the KMT that very little in
common politically or ideologically and
up in Beijing around this very same time
late April 1927 not long after the
Shanghai Massacre Jung hawlings men
raided the Russian embassy there and
walked out with a trove of documents
that exposed the Soviets intentions as
far as the Chinese Communist went 19
Chinese Communists including one of the
ideological founders of the party Lee
thought Cho were captured inside the
embassy and later executed Lata Chao was
one of Chairman Mao's early mentors at
Peking University an early casualty of
the revolution
dead at the age of 37 almost 38,000
dedicated communists and their
supporters ended up losing their lives
in the 1927 white terror was a bad year
for the CCP by any reckoning okay
let's hang it up for now and return to
our story in a mere couple weeks we'll
pick up in those post Shanghai Massacre
weeks and months and see what happens
with the northern expedition and beyond
hey don't be shy if you want to show
some support for the CHP please go to
patreon
dot-com sign up and pledge three bucks a
month or more if you want lots of
exclusive content waiting for you there
with more coming all the time not to
mention the occasional early access to
see HP episodes if your uh PayPal kind
of person go to paypal.com cast any
spare change throw it my way links as
usual or in the show notes this is the
last time you'll be hearing from the
likes of me in 2019 next year is the
year of the rat 2020 that starts January
25th my deepest thanks to everyone of
you who suffered through me all year
long and an eternal thanks to everyone
who has listened to the CH be going back
to 2010 all you good-looking peoples who
stumbled into me along the way
Fage hunk on Shane Nieman okay as far as
our little warlord series it's getting
near the end let's try and finish this
in ten episodes lhasa montgomery here
signing off as i have all year long from
los angeles california boy not like the
early days when I was on the run
constantly please please me like I
please you and come back one more time
for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast take care everyone